React JS

Plain react Application  - react, react router, Babel transpiler, webpack bundler, 
                           css - Import a style file into the component.
						   scss - Import, scss file in a component. 
						   react module css
						   styled components -
						   tailwind css 
						   output - dist folder (index.js, index.html chunk files, assets)

React Application with next JS -  npx create-next-app (its will contain webpack file based routing, module css, ssr, create API )
								



Virtual DOM
	React uses a Virtual DOM to optimize UI rendering. Instead of updating the entire real DOM directly, 
	React: Creates a lightweight copy of the DOM (Virtual DOM). Compares it with the previous version to detect changes (diffing).
	Diffing Algorithm: React compares the new Virtual DOM tree with the previous one using its efficient diffing algorithm to identify the minimal set of changes required.
	Updates only the changed parts in the actual DOM (reconciliation), improving performance.
	Reconciliation is a process in React that helps it update the UI efficiently. 
	Whenever something changes in our app, like the data or state, React needs to update the web page to reflect those changes.
JSX
	JSX is a powerful feature of React that allows you to write HTML-like code within JavaScript. 
	It simplifies the process of building user interfaces by combining the flexibility of JavaScript with the structure of HTML. 
	JSX makes it easier to render dynamic content, embed expressions, and manage event handling. 
	React efficiently converts JSX into JavaScript objects, which are used to update the real DOM.
	
	JSX Gets Transformed: JSX is not directly understood by browsers. 
	So, it gets converted into JavaScript by a tool called Babel. 
	
	Babel --> transpiler Babel is a JavaScript transpiler. It converts modern JavaScript (ES6+), JSX syntax used in React, 
	          and other syntax variations into older versions of JavaScript (ES5) that can be understood by all browsers,
	webpack -->  Webpack is a module bundler. It takes various files (JavaScript, CSS, images, etc.) 
				 and their dependencies and bundles them into a single file or a few optimized files, often referred to as "bundles." 
				 
	outpot --> .next folder

one-way data binding
	React employs a one-way data binding approach, where data flows unidirectionally from parent components to child components. 
	This flow is facilitated through props, which are essentially data passed down from parent to child. 
	Child components can receive and utilize this data, but they cannot directly modify it. 
	To alter the data, a child component must communicate the desired change to its parent, typically through a callback function. 
	The parent component then updates its state, triggering a re-render and propagating the updated data back down to the child component. 
	

React Components

	A component is a building block that encapsulates a piece of the user interface (UI). 
	It defines the structure and behavior of the UI, either by managing its own state or by receiving data through props and rendering content accordingly. 
	Components are reusable and can be composed together to build complex UIs in a modular way.

	Components can be reused across different parts of the application to maintain consistency and reduce code duplication.
	Components manage how their output is rendered in the DOM based on their state and props.
	React loads only the necessary components, ensuring optimized performance.
	Only the specific Component updates instead of the whole page.
	
	There are two primary types of React components:  1. Functional Components  2. Class Components
	
	1. Functional Components:
	Functional components are simple JavaScript functions that return React elements. 
	Functional components accept properties (props) as arguments and return React elements (JSX).
	With the introduction of React Hooks, functional components can also manage state and lifecycle events.
	They are plain JavaScript functions, making them easier to read and understand.
	Stateless by default:
	Before Hooks, functional components were primarily used for presentational purposes, rendering UI based on props.
	Hooks for state and lifecycle:
	With Hooks like useState and useEffect, functional components can manage state and handle side effects, similar to class components.
	
	2. Class Components
	Class components are ES6 classes that extend React.Component. They allow state management and lifecycle methods for complex UI logic.

	Used for stateful components before Hooks.
	Support lifecycle methods for mounting, updating, and unmounting.
	The render() method in React class components returns JSX elements describing the UI of the Application
	
	// Filename App.js
	import React from "react";

	class App extends React.Component {
		render() {
			return <h1>GeeksForGeeks</h1>;
		}
	}

	export default App;
	
	3.controlled and uncontrolled components
	  A controlled component is a component which is managed by its parent component and its value is updated using props 
	  whereas uncontrolled components maintain their own state and data flow is done inside the component only unlike controlled components which pass data from parent to child.
	  controlled component -- > Controlled components use React state for form handling, offering better control and updates. (simple forms)
								Uses React state as the source of truth.
								Data flows from React state to input.
								
	  Uncontrolled components --> Uncontrolled components rely on the DOM for state management (complex forms).
								  Uses the DOM to maintain internal state.
								  Data flows from the input to React only when accessed via refs.
	


PROPS
	Props, short for "properties", are used to pass data from one component to another. 
	They enable React components to be dynamic and reusable, allowing data to flow down the component tree.
	
	props are read-only data passed from one component to another. They are immutable, meaning the child component cannot modify the props it receives. 
	Only the parent component can alter the data passed through props. React enforces a unidirectional data flow, 
	meaning that data typically flows from the parent component down to the child. However, 
	props can also be used to pass callback functions, allowing child components to communicate with the parent and trigger changes in state or behaviour.
	
	With the help of Props, we can make components reusable and dynamic by allowing different data to be passed into a component at runtime. 
	This flexibility helps you to create components that can display dynamic content depending on the props they receive.



What is ReactJS PropTypes? (used only for jsx for type checking, not required in tsx)
	PropTypes is a tool in React that helps us check if the data (props) being passed to a component is of the correct type. 
	The react components receive various types of props and PropTypes help make sure that the right kind of data (like a string, number, or object) is passed to components.

	Type Safety: When the wrong data type is passed in the component, prototypes help find the issues.
	Better Debugging: During development, they give warning messages in the console, which makes it easier to find the bugs.
	Improved Documentation: It acts as self-documentation for your components, showing the expected types of props.
	Prevents Runtime Errors: We can avoid errors caused by unexpected data types during the execution of the application, by enforcing prop types.	
	PropTypes.string, PropTypes.number, PropTypes.bool,  PropTypes.array, PropTypes.object


What is Prop Drilling and How to Avoid it?
	Prop drilling refers to the practice of passing data through several layers of nested components in React, 
	even though intermediate components don't directly utilize this data. 
	This means that a middle component doesn't necessarily need the data, but it must still pass it down to the next component, 
	creating an unnecessary and sometimes lengthy chain of props.
	
	Prop drilling can complicate the React applications, making them harder to maintain and scale. By using modern approaches like React’s 
	1. Context API, 2. state management , 3. custom hooks, 
	we can simplify data sharing across components. Adopting these strategies helps we build cleaner, more efficient, and maintainable React apps.
	



	
	
	
	